We talked about prototyping.
I've had a bit of a rant about how
people organize their Figma files
that out of the way.
Let's talk about testing for a little bit.
Now, I will say I'm now trying to cram a
four-hour workshop into one small section,
so I would encourage you to go away and
watch the other workshop.
But I will kinda briefly touch on
the role of testing in product design and
how it kinda fits in with prototypes and
what kind of testing you
can do at different stages.
Very briefly, obviously,
testing is essential to product design.
It would be madness not to test your
product if you need to justify it to
anybody who doesn't know better.
After you've given them a good slapping,
you can tell them that it
leads to better products.
It's useful in resolving arguments, and
ultimately, it's gonna save you money.
So it's a kinda no brainer really,
but you have to say these things.
I personally,
a fan have lots of lightweight testing.
I'm not a fan of what often happens,
especially in larger,
more traditional organizations where
all the testing is saved up to the end.
That seems like madness to me, because the
end is the most expensive time to test.
Because if you find anything, well,
you've already built everything,
so the cost of changing it is gonna,
be really high.
And also, if you test a little and
often and
early, you tend to uncover more things.
Steve Crew covered this in his book,
Don't Make Me Think,
from where this illustration
comes that basically.
The crux of the matter is that if
you just do one round of testing,
people get stuck, and
then they don't see problems deeper in the
app because they never get any further.
Well, if you do multiple rounds of
testing, then it gets a lot easier.
So do lots of lightweight testing is
my advice, test early is my advice.
Leaving testing to the end of the project
is pointless, really, as I just said.
In terms of opportunities to test,
I think the further you get
in the development cycle,
the higher the costs become.
So testing in the design phase
obviously makes a lot of sense.
As I said earlier,
I don't test paper prototypes,
cuz I don't think they're very good for
testing.
I know other people would
disagree with me and
think that you should be
testing with paper prototypes.
If you've managed to get
it to work good on you,
you're a better designer than I am.
And I haven't managed to do that
particularly successfully, but
I do test wireframes quite a lot.
And also test mockups, even mockups of
single pages, single screens, and an app.
I think there's definitely room for
mocking up those, and
then obviously full blown
prototypes I definitely test.
Then once we move into the build phase,
I will do a bit of testing at this stage,
especially if things have been changed
from the prototype tend to focus on
navigation at this point,
functionality as well.
The key things, can people find stuff?
Are they successfully
finding their way around it?
So I'll do a little bit at that stage.
And then post-launch,
I tend to do quite a lot.
Even though the cost is higher for
change at this point,
there are a lots of opportunities
to make small changes
that aren't necessarily
that expensive to do.
And so I look for things like exit point
where people are abandoning the app.
I'm looking for friction points where
people get frustrated using the app.
And obviously any new functionality
that gets built would need to be
tested as well.
I favor a very pragmatic
approach to testing.
The testing something is always better
than testing nothing as long as you're
aware that your testing isn't necessarily
perfect and you might introduce biases.
I think sometimes there is a fear of,
I need to make my test perfect.
And so you never quite get around to it or
you don't do it as often as you should do.
So I take the average of,
I don't mind doing rubbish testing
as long as I do a lot of it,
and that I'm aware of any biases
that are associated with it.
I tend to avoid telling
anyone I'm gonna do testing,
because immediately they start interfering
with it and if you ask management,
they're gonna have opinions about it and
maybe they say we don't have time.
So I tend to do testing below the radar,
and
I keep it very lightweight and
very inexpensive.
That's how I do it.
One of the big problems with
testing is always recruitment,
finding people to
actually do testing with.
So when I'm testing usability, I don't
always bother with the exact audience.
I'm quite happy to test with friends and
family,
anyone outside of the organization,
anybody who is not associated with
the project or anything like that.
With usability, the only thing you
need to bear in mind is the people
you test with needs to have comparable
levels of physical and cognitive ability.
So if you're aiming at a children
audience or the elderly audience,
then you probably need to test
with children or the elderly.
But for everybody in between,
you're probably with usability fairly
safe just to test with anybody.
That's not to say it's always preferable
to test with your target audience, but
if you can't get hold of them,
then it's better than nothing.
However, please do not ever test with
anyone related to the company or
the project, they're gonna have a degree
of understanding that end users
wouldn't have.
And these days, many testing tools
will recruit participants for
you often as little as a dollar a person.
So it really isn't that much.
I mean, there's a tool that I
use called Askable that you can
recruit people via Askable and
get them to test anything you want.
It's completely platform agnostic.
So whether you're using figma or
anything else, it doesn't care.
And I think I paid 1 pounds 20 per user.
I don't know what that is in dollars
these days, maybe a couple of dollars,
something like that.
So if you're testing
with just a few people,
you can pay that out of your own pocket,
really, so yeah.
I mean, there's there's so many testing
methodologies that you can use and
so many research methodologies.
It can be quite overwhelming, and so
don't get too worried about it,
don't get too hung up on about it.
I'll share with you the kind
of testing that I do a lot of.
But if you wanna give something a go,
then means have a go at it,
see what happens.